_assignments/assignment1/index.md, before:

---
layout: base/bar/bar-sidebar-none
title: "Assignment 1: Project Proposal"

due_project_1a: Uploaded Friday, March 31, 2017
<!-- link_project_1a: https://canvas.uw.edu/courses/1098203/assignments/3559051 -->

due_project_1b: Uploaded Thursday, April 6, 2017
<!-- link_project_1b: https://canvas.uw.edu/courses/1098203/assignments/3559055 -->

due_project_1c: Submitted Friday, April 7, 2017
<!-- link_project_1c_projects: https://canvas.uw.edu/courses/1098203/discussion_topics/3622610 -->
<!-- link_project_1c_bids: https://goo.gl/forms/zMHvrB3HfbfT6J0x1 -->
---

`This page is still being migrated and developed.`

`Information here is likely suggestive of the final page, but remains subject to change.`

# Overview

You are to propose a __problem__ and an __approach__ that could form the basis of a project for this course.
Successful projects will observe the need for good human-centered design in an interactive computing system, 
analyze the needs and opportunities in the problem, explore potential designs, and propose a compelling solution.

This assignment is worth __3%__ of your overall course grade:

- __0.5%__ for the proposal brainstorm
- __2.5%__ for the project proposal

# Milestones

This is an individual assignment, consisting of three milestones.

* [Assignment 1a: Proposal Brainstorm](#proposal_brainstorm)

  Due: {{ page.due_project_1a }}
  
* [Assignment 1b: Project Proposal](#project_proposal)

  Due: {{ page.due_project_1b }}
  
* [Assignment 1c: Revised Project Proposal](#project_bid)

  Due: {{ page.due_project_1c }}

# Project Description

This offering's project theme will be “Designing for diversity”! You will be encouraged to design for groups of people who are different from yourself and/or to design for inclusiveness, connecting people from different backgrounds. 

Computers and the Internet have changed many people's lives. However, many applications that we use in our daily lives are developed by Westerners and embed the developers' beliefs in what is useful and usable. 
For example, Facebook is extremely popular in many Western countries, but has failed to attract a large user base in Russia. Facebook is also not as popular with elderly and teens as it is with people between 25 and 45 of age. Similarly, Uber and Lyft have gained much attraction with economically prosperous young professionals, but are often seen with suspicion in economically strained parts of the US. Most of these problems in designing adequate technology and gaining market share arise because designers and developers can be insufficiently aware of the beliefs, preferences, needs, and prior experiences of people who are different from themselves.

Over the course of the quarter, you will work as a group on designing a system to an activity or relationship within the particular context of a group of people that is not particularly well supported by current tools. Example groups that you could design for are: 
- Minorities 
- Homeless
- People with disabilities
- People from different cultures
- People with chronic conditions
- Elderly
- Local business owners
- Workers
- Interactions between these groups (or between yourselves and one of these groups)

As part of your project, you will need to define what a specific group's needs are that your project tries to support and what activity you would like to design that might help address this need.
Think about how that activity is currently supported via technology, what doesn't work about current ways of supporting it, and how your solution will do this better. 
The specificity of addressing a particular group of people allows you to deeply think about what makes the group unique and how you would best want to support them. So, dive in and see what you can come up with! 

## Thinking Big
 
Your proposal must go beyond a technology-centric proposal of a webpage, phone application, or interaction. Instead think about
the problems that people face in their lives, how we can approach those problems, and the role for interactive computing.
This first assignment is your opportunity to think broadly about identifying a problem. Subsequent assignments will provide
opportunities to focus on designing a specific technological solution to a specific set of tasks.

You should identify and consider goals and activities that are important to people. Potential domains include:

 - living a healthy life
 - managing finances effectively
 - managing time effectively
 - reducing environmental impact
 
Activities within personal informatics can include:

 - planning to track
 - helping remember to track
 - the actual act of tracking
 - identifying activity patterns 
 - sharing accomplishments with friends and family
 - deciding to abandon tracking

Do not start with a focus on concrete one-time tasks (e.g., logging into your bank account). 
Instead identify problems in long-lived activities that span many different social or technological contexts. 
If you want to help people manage their money, do not immediately propose a website that addresses one specific task. 
Instead consider the range of other opportunities (e.g., personal mobile devices, shared family computers, point of sale systems).

Focus on creating or improving a specific application or service that addresses the issues of specific people.
You must be able to create and evaluate a design within the timeframe of this course, so consider whether you 
can reasonably gain access to the necessary people.

We encourage you to think big, expanding your thinking to include new ideas for interaction techniques or technology platforms.
Do not feel constrained by current devices, but instead aim to explore an exciting design that could potentially
motivate the development of new enabling technology. For example, see how Artefact presents the Dialog concept.
This concept has not been implemented, and might not even be immediately possible.
But it has been developed in substantial detail, understanding implications for design and implementation:

- [Dialog: Better Decisions, Better Health - Artefact](http://www.artefactgroup.com/content/work/dialog/)
- [Video of Dialog Talk in DUB Seminar](http://vimeo.com/103167385)

Finally, the project theme requires that your proposal present some opportunity for __tracking beyond the self__.
But you will ultimately follow your design process where it leads you, which may or may not emphasize tracking.
Focusing on problems and opportunities, rather than specific design features will leave room for your design
to emerge and be refined in the course of this project.

## Going Forward

The course staff will select a subset of submitted proposals for sponsorship. Sponsored proposals will be posted,
and students will then bid on the projects they want to pursue in this course. Your proposal is thus an effort to 
convince both the staff and your classmates that a problem is interesting, tractable within the timeline and
constraints of this course, and worthy of investigation.

# Deliverables

<a name="project_brainstorm"></a>

## 1a: Project Brainstorm

Due: {{ page.due_project_1a }}

Friday's section will focus on brainstorming potential project directions.
You will get started on thinking, and help seed this brainstorming, with some individual ideas.

Propose three starting points for brainstorming domains, problems, and goals that might be supported via self-tracking.

By domain, we mean an aspect of life. Domains that are already common in self-tracking include:

- finances (e.g., tracking investments, spending)
- wellness (e.g., tracking physical activity, sleep, weight)
- health (e.g., tracking for post-surgical pain management, allergies or other personal triggers, major weight loss)
- mood (e.g., tracking mood, identifying depressive symptoms)

Be sure to focus on problems and goals, not potential design solutions.
One way to help yourself identify a hierarchy of problems and goals is to ask "why?". For example:

- Why is a person using Mint?
- Why is a person tracking their spending?
- Why do they want to know how much they spend on leisure activities?
- Why do they have a goal of saving for a major purchase?

Each idea should be a single sentence, identifying the domain and the problem or goal.
At most one of your ideas may come from any of the domains above.
You other two ideas should be from domains not in this list, in order to broaden the brainstorm.
Ensure the ideas are significantly different, not small variations on the same idea.

### Submission

Ensure your name and section are at the top of your submission.

No more than one page of text in PDF format. Submit via Canvas here: 

{% if page.link_project_1a != nil %}<{{ page.link_project_1a }}>{% else %}`Link to be added`{% endif %}

If you are still attempting to add, or otherwise unable to access the submission system, submit via the instructor email address.

In section, be prepared to contribute your initial ideas as part of a larger brainstorm.

### Grading

This milestone will be graded on a scale of __3 points__:

- 1 point for each unique proposed idea (i.e., do not submit small variations on the same idea).

<a name="project_proposal"></a>

## 1b: Project Proposal

Due: {{ page.due_project_1b }}

Propose and analyze a problem that could form the basis of a design project for this class.

In one paragraph, describe the design problem and motivation. 
This description should convince the reader that this is a difficult and interesting problem, worth spending a quarter considering. 
State what the problem is and why it is a problem, or describe a new idea and why it will enhance an existing application or practice.

In another paragraph, analyze the problem or idea to give more background and context. 
Do not just focus on the negative aspects of the current situation, but also identify some positive aspects that may be beneficial to retain. 
A few salient examples from existing systems or practices could be used to support those claims.
If appropriate, you may conduct this analysis by describing a scenario that illustrates how someone might encounter and resolve the problem.

Ensure your report is appropriately clear and easy to read. This includes:

 - text should be clear and concise
 - use section headings as appropriate
 - include images in the body of the write-up with appropriate figure numbers and captions
 - refer to the figures in the body of your text
 - check for typos, spelling, and grammar errors

Be sure your presentation looks good:

 - choose appropriate colors, fonts, and styles
 - make liberal use of whitespace 

### Samples from Prior Offerings

Samples from prior offerings include:

{% for currentoffering in site.data.samples.offering %}{% for currentsample in site.data.samples[currentoffering.key] %}
  -  {{ currentoffering.name }} - Proposal that ultimately became [{{ currentsample.name }}]({{ currentsample.link }}): [1b_{{ currentsample.suffix }}.pdf]({{ site.baseurl }}/samples/1b/1b_{{ currentsample.suffix }}.pdf){% endfor %}{% endfor %}

Note that details of assignments may have changed since prior offerings, so their reports may not map to the current project.
Also note these samples are intended to illustrate a variety of approaches, none of which is intended to be ideal or exemplary.
Be sure to understand and carefully consider project requirements and feedback from the course staff in the context of your own work.

### Submission

Ensure your name and section are at the top of your submission.

No more than one page of text in PDF format.

Images do not count against your page limit, and are therefore effectively free. 
You should embed images throughout your PDF, keeping them near the text that references them.
The limit applies to the approximate amount of text you would have if all images were removed.

Submit via Canvas here:

{% if page.link_project_1b != nil %}<{{ page.link_project_1b }}>{% else %}`Link to be added`{% endif %}

### Grading

This proposal will be graded on a scale of __10 points__:

1. __Problem and Motivation__: (3 points)
2. __Analysis of Problem__: (3 points)
3. __Novelty and Creativity__: (2 points)
4. __Report Clarity and Presentation__: (2 points)

<a name="project_bid"></a>

## 1c: Project Bid

Due: {{ page.due_project_1c }}

Review the sponsored projects and course staff comments regarding those projects:

{% if page.link_project_1c_projects != nil %}<{{ page.link_project_1c_projects }}>{% else %}`Link to be added`{% endif %}

You will submit a bid on projects and potential partners. Course staff will use your bids to assign projects and groups. 

### Submission

Submit your bid on projects and potential partners here:

{% if page.link_project_1c_bids != nil %}<{{ page.link_project_1c_bids }}>{% else %}`Link to be added`{% endif %}

### Grading

Submitting a project bid is a requirement for proceeding in the class.

Commit message:

Updated grade distribution Updated assignment 1 details Minor changes to calendar

_assignments/assignment1/index.md, after:

---
layout: base/bar/bar-sidebar-none
title: "Assignment 1: Project Proposal"

due_project_1a: Uploaded Friday, March 31, 2017
link_project_1a: https://canvas.uw.edu/courses/1138137/assignments/3689000

due_project_1b: Uploaded Thursday, April 6, 2017
<!-- link_project_1b: https://canvas.uw.edu/courses/1098203/assignments/3559055 -->

due_project_1c: Submitted Friday, April 7, 2017
<!-- link_project_1c_projects: https://canvas.uw.edu/courses/1098203/discussion_topics/3622610 -->
<!-- link_project_1c_bids: https://goo.gl/forms/zMHvrB3HfbfT6J0x1 -->
---

`This page is still being migrated and developed.`

`Information here is likely suggestive of the final page, but remains subject to change.`

# Overview

You are to propose a __problem__ and an __approach__ that could form the basis of a project for this course.
Successful projects will observe the need for good human-centered design in an interactive computing system, 
analyze the needs and opportunities in the problem, explore potential designs, and propose a compelling solution.

This assignment is worth __5%__ of your overall course grade:

- __1%__ for the proposal brainstorm
- __3%__ for the project proposal
- __1%__ for the revised project proposal

# Milestones

This is an individual assignment, consisting of three milestones.

* [Assignment 1a: Proposal Brainstorm](#proposal_brainstorm)

  Due: {{ page.due_project_1a }}
  
* [Assignment 1b: Project Proposal](#project_proposal)

  Due: {{ page.due_project_1b }}
  
* [Assignment 1c: Revised Project Proposal](#project_bid)

  Due: {{ page.due_project_1c }}

# Project Description

This offering's project theme will be “Designing for diversity”! You will be encouraged to design for groups of people who are different from yourself and/or to design for inclusiveness, connecting people from different backgrounds. 

Computers and the Internet have changed many people's lives. However, many applications that we use in our daily lives are developed by Westerners and embed the developers' beliefs in what is useful and usable. 
For example, Facebook is extremely popular in many Western countries, but has failed to attract a large user base in Russia. Facebook is also not as popular with elderly and teens as it is with people between 25 and 45 of age. Similarly, Uber and Lyft have gained much attraction with economically prosperous young professionals, but are often seen with suspicion in economically strained parts of the US. Most of these problems in designing adequate technology and gaining market share arise because designers and developers can be insufficiently aware of the beliefs, preferences, needs, and prior experiences of people who are different from themselves.

Over the course of the quarter, you will work as a group on designing a system to an activity or relationship within the particular context of a group of people that is not particularly well supported by current tools. Example groups that you could design for are: 
- Minorities 
- Homeless
- People with disabilities
- People from different cultures
- People with chronic conditions
- Elderly
- Local business owners
- Workers
- Interactions between these groups (or between yourselves and one of these groups)

As part of your project, you will need to define what a specific group's needs are that your project tries to support and what activity you would like to design that might help address this need.
Think about how that activity is currently supported via technology, what doesn't work about current ways of supporting it, and how your solution will do this better. 
The specificity of addressing a particular group of people allows you to deeply think about what makes the group unique and how you would best want to support them. So, dive in and see what you can come up with! 

## Thinking Big
 
Your proposal must go beyond a technology-centric proposal of a webpage, phone application, or interaction. Instead think about
the problems that people face in their lives, how we can approach those problems, and the role for interactive computing.
This first assignment is your opportunity to think broadly about identifying a problem. Subsequent assignments will provide
opportunities to focus on designing a specific technological solution to a specific set of tasks.

You should identify and consider goals and activities that are important to people. Potential domains include:

 - living a healthy life
 - managing finances effectively
 - managing time effectively
 - reducing environmental impact
 
Activities within personal informatics can include:

 - planning to track
 - helping remember to track
 - the actual act of tracking
 - identifying activity patterns 
 - sharing accomplishments with friends and family
 - deciding to abandon tracking

Do not start with a focus on concrete one-time tasks (e.g., logging into your bank account). 
Instead identify problems in long-lived activities that span many different social or technological contexts. 
If you want to help people manage their money, do not immediately propose a website that addresses one specific task. 
Instead consider the range of other opportunities (e.g., personal mobile devices, shared family computers, point of sale systems).

Focus on creating or improving a specific application or service that addresses the issues of specific people.
You must be able to create and evaluate a design within the timeframe of this course, so consider whether you 
can reasonably gain access to the necessary people.

We encourage you to think big, expanding your thinking to include new ideas for interaction techniques or technology platforms.
Do not feel constrained by current devices, but instead aim to explore an exciting design that could potentially
motivate the development of new enabling technology. For example, see how Artefact presents the Dialog concept.
This concept has not been implemented, and might not even be immediately possible.
But it has been developed in substantial detail, understanding implications for design and implementation:

- [Dialog: Better Decisions, Better Health - Artefact](http://www.artefactgroup.com/content/work/dialog/)
- [Video of Dialog Talk in DUB Seminar](http://vimeo.com/103167385)

Finally, the project theme requires that your proposal present some opportunity for __tracking beyond the self__.
But you will ultimately follow your design process where it leads you, which may or may not emphasize tracking.
Focusing on problems and opportunities, rather than specific design features will leave room for your design
to emerge and be refined in the course of this project.

## Going Forward

The course staff will select a subset of submitted proposals for sponsorship. Sponsored proposals will be posted,
and students will then bid on the projects they want to pursue in this course. Your proposal is thus an effort to 
convince both the staff and your classmates that a problem is interesting, tractable within the timeline and
constraints of this course, and worthy of investigation.

# Deliverables

<a name="project_brainstorm"></a>

## 1a: Project Brainstorm

Due: {{ page.due_project_1a }}

Friday’s section will focus on brainstorming potential project directions. You will get started on thinking, and help seed this brainstorming, with some individual ideas.

Propose three starting points for brainstorming domains, problems, and goals that fall within the realm of designing for diversity.

By domain, we mean an aspect of a community. Domains include:

- Minorities
- Homeless
- People with disabilities
- People from different cultures
- People with chronic conditions
- Elderly
- Local business owners
- Workers

Be sure to focus on problems and goals, not potential design solutions.
One way to help yourself identify a hierarchy of problems and goals is to ask "why?". For example:

- Why is a person not using Facebook?
- Why is a person unable to play shooter games?
- Why do they want to keep up with the current technology?

Each idea should be a single sentence, identifying the domain and the problem or goal.
At most one of your ideas may come from any of the domains above.
You other two ideas should be from domains not in this list, in order to broaden the brainstorm.
Ensure the ideas are significantly different, not small variations on the same idea.

### Submission

Ensure your name and section are at the top of your submission.

No more than one page of text in PDF format. Submit via Canvas here: 

{% if page.link_project_1a != nil %}<{{ page.link_project_1a }}>{% else %}`Link to be added`{% endif %}

If you are still attempting to add, or otherwise unable to access the submission system, submit via the instructor email address.

In section, be prepared to contribute your initial ideas as part of a larger brainstorm.

### Grading

This milestone will be graded on a scale of __3 points__:

- 1 point for each unique proposed idea (i.e., do not submit small variations on the same idea).

<a name="project_proposal"></a>

## 1b: Project Proposal

Due: {{ page.due_project_1b }}

Propose and analyze a problem that could form the basis of a design project for this class.

In one paragraph, describe the design problem and motivation. 
This description should convince the reader that this is a difficult and interesting problem, worth spending a quarter considering. 
State what the problem is and why it is a problem, or describe a new idea and why it will enhance an existing application or practice.

In another paragraph, analyze the problem or idea to give more background and context. 
Do not just focus on the negative aspects of the current situation, but also identify some positive aspects that may be beneficial to retain. 
A few salient examples from existing systems or practices could be used to support those claims.
If appropriate, you may conduct this analysis by describing a scenario that illustrates how someone might encounter and resolve the problem.

Ensure your report is appropriately clear and easy to read. This includes:

 - text should be clear and concise
 - use section headings as appropriate
 - include images in the body of the write-up with appropriate figure numbers and captions
 - refer to the figures in the body of your text
 - check for typos, spelling, and grammar errors

Be sure your presentation looks good:

 - choose appropriate colors, fonts, and styles
 - make liberal use of whitespace 

### Samples from Prior Offerings

Samples from prior offerings include:

{% for currentoffering in site.data.samples.offering %}{% for currentsample in site.data.samples[currentoffering.key] %}
  -  {{ currentoffering.name }} - Proposal that ultimately became [{{ currentsample.name }}]({{ currentsample.link }}): [1b_{{ currentsample.suffix }}.pdf]({{ site.baseurl }}/samples/1b/1b_{{ currentsample.suffix }}.pdf){% endfor %}{% endfor %}

Note that details of assignments may have changed since prior offerings, so their reports may not map to the current project.
Also note these samples are intended to illustrate a variety of approaches, none of which is intended to be ideal or exemplary.
Be sure to understand and carefully consider project requirements and feedback from the course staff in the context of your own work.

### Submission

Ensure your name and section are at the top of your submission.

No more than one page of text in PDF format.

Images do not count against your page limit, and are therefore effectively free. 
You should embed images throughout your PDF, keeping them near the text that references them.
The limit applies to the approximate amount of text you would have if all images were removed.

Submit via Canvas here:

{% if page.link_project_1b != nil %}<{{ page.link_project_1b }}>{% else %}`Link to be added`{% endif %}

### Grading

This proposal will be graded on a scale of __10 points__:

1. __Problem and Motivation__: (3 points)
2. __Analysis of Problem__: (3 points)
3. __Novelty and Creativity__: (2 points)
4. __Report Clarity and Presentation__: (2 points)

<a name="project_bid"></a>

## 1c: Revised Project Proposal

Due: {{ page.due_project_1c }}

Update the project proposal based on the feedback you received from the staff. Describe the changes that you made from the previous version in one to two paragraphs. 

<!-- {% if page.link_project_1c_projects != nil %}<{{ page.link_project_1c_projects }}>{% else %}`Link to be added`{% endif %} -->

### Submission

The submission should describe the changes made from the previous verion on the first page, followed by the updated proposal. 

{% if page.link_project_1c_bids != nil %}<{{ page.link_project_1c_bids }}>{% else %}`Link to be added`{% endif %}

### Grading

The revised proposal will be graded on a scale of __6 points__:

1. __Changes explained__: (1.5 points)
2. __Proposal Revision__: (3 points)
3. __Report Clarity and Presentation__: (1.5 points)
